## What is SQL?
Structured Query Language, or <u>SQL</u> (pronounced "squeel" by the in-crowd), is the primary programming language used to manage and interact with <u>relational databases</u>. SQL can perform various operations such as creating, updating, reading, and deleting records within a database.
### CashPal
In this course, we will be building the database for a pretend PayPal clone called *CashPal*! Storing information related to people's money, transactions, and identity is very important! So we'll need to make sure we use proper conventions to build a safe, and reliable database architecture that our users can rely on.

## SQL Select Statement
Let's write our own SQL statement from scratch! A `SELECT` statements is the most common operation in SQL - often called a "query". `SELECT` retrieves data from one or more tables. Standard `SELECT` statements do *not* alter the state of the database.

```sql
SELECT id FROM users;
```

### Select a single field
A `SELECT` statement begins with keyword `SELECt` followed by the fields you want to retrieve.

```sql
SELECT id FROM users;
```

### Select multiple fields
If you want to select more than one field you can specify multiple fields separated by commas.

```sql
SELECT id, name FROM users;
```

### Select all fields
If you want to select *every* field in a record you can use the shorthand `*` syntax.

```sql
SELECT * FROM users;
```

After specifying fields, you need to indicate which table you want to pull the records *from* using the `from` statement followed by the name of the table. We'll talk more about tables later, but for now, you can think about them like structs or objects. For example, the `users` table might have 3 fields:
- `id`
- `name`
- `balance`
And finally, *all* statements end with a semi-colon `;`.

## Which Databases Use SQL?
SQL is just a query language. You typically use it to interact with a specific database technology. For example:
- <u>SQLite</u>
- <u>PostgreSQL</u>
- <u>MySQL</u>
- <u>CockroachDB</u>
- <u>Oracle</u>
- etc...

Although many different databases use the SQL *language*, most of them will have their own *dialect*. It'ks *critical* to understand that *not* all databases are created equal. Just because one SQL-compatible database does things in certain way, doesn't mean every SQL-compatible database will follow those exact same patterns.

### We're using SQLite
In this course, we'll be using <u>SQLite</u>. SQLite is great for embedded projects, web browsers, and toy projects. It's lightweight, but has limited functionality compared to the likes of PostgreSQL or MySQL - two of the more common production SQL technologies.

We'll point out to you whenever some functionality we're working with is unique to SQLiite!

## NoSQL vs SQL
When talking about SQL databases, we also have to mention the elephant in the room: <u>NoSQL</u>

To put it simply, a NoSQL database is a database that does *not* use SQL (Structure Query Language). Each NoSQL typically has its own way of writing and executing queries. For example, <u>MongoDB</u> uses MQL (MongoDB Query Language) and <u>ElasticSearch</u> simply has a JSON API.

While most relational databases are fairly similar, NoSQL tend to be fairly unique and are used for more niche purposes. Some of the main differences between a SQL and NoSQL databases are:
1. NoSQL databases are usually non-relational, SQL databases are usually <u>relational</u> (we'll talk more about what this means later).
2. SQL databases usually have a defined schema, NoSQL databases usually have dynamic schema.
3. SQL databases are table-based, NoSQL databases have variety of different storage methods, such as document, key-value, graph, wide-column, and more.

### Types of NoSQL databases
- <u>Document Database</u>
- <u>Key-Value Store</u> 
- <u>Wide-Column</u>
- <u>Graph</u>
A few of the most popular NoSQL databases are:
- <u>MongoDB</u>
- <u>Cassandra</u>
- <u>CouchDB</u>
- <u>DynamoDB</u>
- <u>ElasticSearch</u>

## Comparing SQL Databases 
Let's dive deeper and talk about some of the popular SQL Databases and what makes them different from one another. Some of the most popular SQL Databases right now are:
- <u>PostgreSQL</u>
- <u>MySQL</u>
- <u>Microsoft SQL Server</u>
- <u>SQLite</u>
- <u>And many others</u>
While all of these Databases use SQL, each databases defines specific rules, practices, and strategies that separate them from their competitors.

### SQLite vs PostgreSQL
Personally, SQLite and PostgreSQL are my favorites from the list above. Postgres is a very powerful, open-source, production-ready SQL database. SQLite is a lightweight, embeddable, open-source database. I usually choose on of these technologies if I'm doing SQL work. 

SQLite is a serverless database management system (DMBS) that has the ability to run within applications, whereas PostgreSQL uses a Client-Server model and requires a server to be installed and listening on a network, similar to an HTTP server.

SQLite does *not* enforce type-checking.

