**bash** - cutback from "Bourne Again Shell", where "Bourne Shell" - title of the first Unix shell
**tcsh** - provides script C-like language

Each command consist of three parts: the command itself, its parameters and arguments.

```Shell
ls
ls -l
ls /usr
ls -l /usr
```

### Sequences of commands
By using `|` symbol we can construct the sequences of commands. For example:

```Shell
ls -R / | less
```

Here the `ls -R` command is executed and sends its result to the `less` command. And the less command divides the received output into pages and shows the output of the first command page by page.

### Redirection
Another often used in the terminal operator is the redirection operator `>`. By default, the result of executing the command is displayed in the terminal. Using redirection, you can send it anywhere, for a example, to a file. For example, output the result of the `ls -l` command to a file `folder.txt`

```Shell
ls -l > folder.txt
```

As a result of execution this command, a file will be created in the current folder if the file hasn't been created before. If such a file already exists, it will be overwritten.

If there is a such file, but it should not be overwritten, but result of the command should be added to the existing content. Then you can use the operator `>>`

```Shell
ls -l >> folder.txt
```

During the execution of commands an errors can arise. The `2>` operator can be used to output the errors:

```Shell
ls -l 2> errors.txt
```

However, when executing a command, we may not know for sure whether there will be an error or not. In this case, we can distinguish between the usual command output and error output:

```Shell
ls -l > folder.txt 2> errors.txt
```

In this case, the output of the commands is written to a file `folder.txt`. But if there are errors, they are recorded in `errors.txt`.

###  Getting information

To get info about commands Linux provides the specific `man` command (from manual). This command is given the name of the command, that needs to be informed about:

```Shell
man command_name
man ls
```

The output of `man` typically includes the following sections:

- *Name*: this is the name of the command, and also briefly the purpose of the team.
- *Synopsis*: brief info about command usage. It displays all available parameters and indicates whether the parameter is optional (show in square brackets) or mandatory (not in parentheses).
- *Description*: the command description.
- *Options*: this is a complete list of all available options.
- *Files*: a short list of files associated with command (if any).
- *See also*: list of related commands.
- *Author*: the author of the command and his email.

### `--help` option

Another way to get info about the command is to use the `--help` option, which almost all commands have. For example, we will get info about `ls` command:

```Shell
ls --help
```

### The history of commands

The Bash shell remembers the command entry history and allows you to reuse recently used commands. Many distributions remember the last 1000 commands that the user used; in fact, the number of commands that the shell remembers is determined in a system variable named `HISTSIZE`. The history itself (the last 1000 commands) is stored in a file `.bash_history` in each user's home directory. To see the whole story, you can open this file, or you can enter the history command in the terminal:

```Shell
history
```

Linux allows you to repeat the command, by using its number in the history. For example:

```Shell
!4
ls -l /usr
```

You can also clear the entire history using the command:

```Shell
history -c
```

