<u>cURL</u> is a command-line tool for transferring data using various protocols, like HTTP and HTTPS. It's a favorite developers. Among other things, developers user cURL for:
- **Quick testing**: make HTTP requests with a single command.
- **Automation:** can seamlessly be integrated into scripts and automation workflows.
- **Debugging:** easily see requests and responses.

## cURL Basics
The simplest cURL command makes a GET request to the provided URL, for example:

```shell
curl https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users/1
```

The response body is written to `stdout`
Because the output is written to `stdout` you can combine it with other commands, e.g. redirecting the output to a file.

```shell
curl https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users/1 > user1.json
```

cURL supports a number of options and commands. Check their <u>tutorial page</u> or the `man` page for more information. We will only be covering the basics

```shell
man curl
```

## cURL POST Request
Making a `POST` request with cURL is almost as simple as a GET request. Use the `-X POST` option to specify the request method and the `-d` option to pass data.

Here's how to make a POST request:

```shell
curl -X POST http://example.com/resource -d "param1=value1&param2=value2"
```

This command makes an HTTP `POST` request to `http://example.com/resource` with the data `param1=value1&param2=value2`. The server's response body is written to `stdout`. 

If you need to send JSON data, use the `-H` option to set the `Content-Type` header and the `-d` option to pass the JSON data:

```shell
curl -X POST http://example.com/resource -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"key1":"value1","key2":"value2"}'
```

## jq
`jq` is a powerful command-line tool for processing JSON data. It's a favorite among developers to working with JSON because it can:
- **Parse JSON**: easily read and extract data from JSON response.
- **Manipulate JSON**: modify JSON data on the fly.
- **Filter JSON**: find exactly what you're looking for within large JSON structures.

## jq Basics

Once installed, you can use `jq` to parse and manipulate JSON data. Here's a simple example to get your started. Suppose you have a JSON file named `user.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "John",
  "age": 30,
  "city": "New York"
}
```

To extract the `name` field, you would use:

```json
jq '.name' user.json
# "John"
```

### jq with cURL 
`jq` is frequently used with `cURL` to parse JSON responses directly from HTTP request. For example, to fetch JSON data from an API and extract a field we can use the `object identifier index`:

```shell
curl https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users/1 | jq .username
# "Bret"
```

To get a field from each element in an array you can use `array/object value iterator` `.[]`, which can in turn be combined with the identifier index:

```shell
curl https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users | jq '.[].username'
# "Bret"
# "Antonette"
# "Samantha"
# "Karianne"
# "Kamren"
# "Leopoldo_Corkery"
# "Elwyn.Skiles"
# "Maxime_Nienow"
# "Delphine"
# "Moriah.Stanton"
```

### Multiple Fields
```shell
curl https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users/1 | jq '.name, .email'
# "Leanne Graham"
# "Sincere@april.biz"
```

`jq` is extremely powerful. We won't cover every feature in this course, but it's a tool you should about for future.