### Getting information about machine

`uname`: used to display info about the operating system and the hostname of the system. This command can also display the hardware type, operating system version, and kernel version number.

```Shell
uname
```

`uname` command can accept various flags to specify the output. Foe example, `-a` displays all information, including the system name, the hostname of the network node, the kernel version, etc.

```Shell
uname -a
```

Instead of displaying all the parameters, we can output only certain ones using one of the following options:
- `-s`, `--kernel-name`: displays hostname
- `-n`, `--nodename`: displays network hostname
- `-r`, `--kernel-release`: displays kernel release
- `-v`, `--kernel-version`: displays kernel version
- `-m`, `--machine`: displays computer architecture
- `-p`, `--processor`: displays processor type
- `-i`, `--hardware-platform`: displays hardware platform
- `-o`, `--operating-system`: displays operating system

`lsb_release`: used to display information about the Linux Standard Base (LSB), distributor id, and release number. LSB is the standard that defines the Linux operating system. Using the `--id` flag, you can get the distributor id:

```Shell
lsb_release --id
```
\
`hostnamectl`: used to display and change the hostname of the system, as well as to view various system settings, such as operating system arc, boot mode, and system time zone. This command is useful for charging the hostname or viewing system settings without having to log in as the root user.

```Shell
hostnametcl
```

`date`: shows current date

```Shell
date
```
