`touch` to create a file
`rm` to delete a file/directory
`cp` to copy files/directories. To copy a directory we need to specify `-r` flag. To copy hidden files we need `*`:

```Shell
mdkir ~/Documents/test5
cp .* ~/Documents/test5
```

### Options
The command accepts many options. I will note some of them:
- `-a`: indicated that the properties of the files being copied, such as permissions, are also copied
- `-b`: backup. If the `cp` command overwrites an existing destination file, this option ensures that a backup copy of that destination file is created first.
- `-f`: if destination file prohibits copying the file, this option will force copying. This means that the destination file has been overwritten.
- `-i`: when using this option, `cp` requests overwriting if the specified file already exists at the destination.
- `-p`: guarantee, that file attributes, such as owner and permissions, will be copy as well
- `-r`: recursive copying
- `-u`: it is copied only if the target file is older than the source file or if the target file doesn't exist.

`mv` to move the files/directories. We can use `mv` for renaming:

```Shell
mv ~/Documents/test8 ~/Documents/test9
```

`wc` to count lines/words/characters
`ln` to create a pointer to a file.

```shell
ln -s /etc/hosts ~/myhost
```

As a result, a shortcut named "myhost" will be created in the home directory. And every time you open the "myhost" file, the `/etc/hosts` file will actually open. To view the link info, you can use the `ls -l` command