`mount` is generally intended for manually mounting devices (e.g. USB-connected devices) into the system. On desktop systems with a graphical interface, mounting is usually done automatically. The system itself can identify the connected device and mount them. However, in some cases, they may need to be manually mounted, for example, if the system doesn't correctly identify or doesn't identify connected devices at all.

```shell
mount what where
```

The folder in the media is usually acts as the place where it is mounted. It is also not uncommon to use the `/mnt` directory to mount a device.

Let's take a small example. In my case, an ssd drive `/dev/nvme0n1p3` is connected to the pc, but the system doesn't see it, it isn't mounted. I will use the media directory for mounting. Usually, a separate directory for the current user is automatically created in this directory and devices are automatically mounted to this directory. So, in my case, the current user is `eugene`, respectively, the directory into which I will mount is called `/media/eugene`. First, let's create a folder for the device in this directory:

```shell
cd /medioa/eugene
sudo mkdir windows
sudo mount /dev/nvme0n1p3 /media/eugene/windows
```

Thus, here the device `/dev/nvme0n1p3` is mounted in the directory `/media/eugene/windows`. After that, I can go to the mounted disk and view its content.

`mount` supports many options. I will mention just a few. So, the `-t` options allows you to specify the type of file system for the device to be mounted:

```shell
sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/nvme0n1p3 /media/eugene/windows
```

